Git: It is basically a version control software that stores various versions of your code
with this we can view and resotre (if we so please) old versions of our code.

We use windows powershell to instruct Git, but we can also use the git command line.

ls - list all the files and the folders in the current folder
              All the git commands run inside a specific folder, by default it runs inside the $HOME
              folder.

To change the folder to our project folder we do the following:  

cd ~/Desktop/file_name

To create version(s) of the code, this command will start tracking every file in that folder

 git init


To know how many changes have been made to the file, we do the following,

git status

To add the files in the version

1. git add file_name
2. git add folder_name (If there is a folder inside the project_file (file_name) then git will add all the files in the folder)
3. git add .    (This will add all the files inisde the project folder)

(run git status to confirm if these files have been added to the version)

git add command does not create a new version but it allows us to add what will be in the new version


To create a new version, a version in git is known as a commit

git commit -m "your message"

for a windows machine, we have to configure an email and a name to display on the commit

git config --global user.email "email"
git config --global user.name "name"

we have created a version for our code succesfully

To check the version history of our code, we do the following: 

git log 

If we want to change the commit message if we make a mistake, 


git commit -m "your_edited_message" --amend

The same way, if a new folder is added in the project file 
of if something new has been added after commiting, we can do the same but the 
message must remain the same.

If there is a change in the code, like what is written in the code then for a code editor like VS 
which has a built in git section, it can show us the changes made in the code compared to the
original version.

Whenever we make changes to our code, we do so ourselves, so in order to save these changes for 
the next version, we can do, 

git add .

This will store all the changes in the staging area which will then be sent into a new commit.

Working area is where we are working on the code, once done, we can save the code in the editor and 
then add the files so that they can enter the staging area and then commit so that these changes can 
go to the new version. 

Git fundamentally tracks changes in the files and not the files themselves.

To take the file out of the staging area and into the working area again, we can use the following command: 


git reset file_name
git reset folder_name (removes all the files and sub folders insdie this folder from the staging area)

If we want to reset all the changes in the code of the file and retore the file to its original state we can,

git checkout -- file_name
git checkout -- folder_name
git checkout -- .


In order to switch between versions, we can 

git checkout commit_hash

After doing this we can do git log --all (which will display all the versions).
Right next to the commit hash of a version there will be written (HEAD) meaning 
that we are currently viewing that version in our code editor


Branching: 
If we access a version in git through our code editor, edit csome lines in it and then save it
we have now created a branch of that version.

In order to view the branches between versions, we can 

git log --all --graph
(git log doesn't show unnamed branches)

To restore the files contents of a file in the previous version to the current version, we can, 
 
git checkout command_hash file/folder_name

This will restore the file contents of a file present in the current version to a the contents of the 
file in the previous version without branching the previous version out.

To add these changes to our version history, we can

step 1 : git status (because we did git checkout commit hash file/folder_name, git adds it in the staging area for us automatically)
step 2: git commit -m "version updated"
step 3: git log --all --graph (to make sure that we succesfully bypassed branching)



Aliases:

Instead of typing 'git status' we can type 'git s' this is called an abbreviation or an alias
in order to set up an alias in git we can

git config --global alias.what you want the alias to be "what it stands for"


To tell git what files to ignore (i.e not to track) in the versions we can, 
 
step 1: make a ".gitignore" file and put your file name into that file
step 2: go the tab and add git ignore and pass it on as a version if you haven't already
step 3: git status to see if it really did work


To remove git from our project files completely
rm -rf .git

Two way sync - 

Ex. Google drive, 

Update on computer -> update on our drive
Update on drive -> update on the computer 

This is called two way sync, meaning it allows us to store our files in a cloud and whenever
we make chanegs to it, it updates depending on where you made the changes from.

Github is specifically designed for git repos
Google drive does not store version history, but GitHub does.

The folder we have on our computer is called the local repo
but the repo we create on GitHub is called a remote repo

To upload our local to remote repo we can, 

Step 1: git remote add "name of your remote repo(what you want it to be, convention is "origin") <url of our remote repo>"

Step 2: check if link has been established, "git remote -v"(more detailes)/ "git remote"

                                  To remove a remote repo, we can,

                                               git remote remove <name of remote repo>

Definitions: 

1. Push - Uploading changes(new_versions/branches) to GitHub from local repo
2. Pull - Downloading from GitHub

How to push? 

Step 1: Log in to your github account from command line
                         git config --global credential.username "<username>"
Step 2: Push to github
                  git push origin <branch/version name>(but conventionally "master")
	

Also, if you've created a new repository entirely, run this command to push the new file
on the github repository

git -u push origin main

If you do  git log --all --graph, there will be an "origin/master" line next to whatever you've pushed
this is called a remote tracking branch.

Since we pushed our files to github, it now has a copy of whatever we pushed, it tells us
what the master branch or the main branch looks like on our github repo


Run this command to download the code from the remote to a local repository, 

git clone <repository_url> folder_name(of the local repo you want to store it in)

Once you make the changes needed in the code via the cloned local repository,
commit and push.

After that switch the command directory to the original local repository and then,

git fetch

This fetches the changes from github done to the local repository and then updates it
automatically.
